---
layout: post
title: Wrap Up!
subtitle: What's next?
---
Thank you for attending the collaborative workshop last week.  Having the wide breadth of expertise in the room was a greatly appreciated. 

We look forward to keeping the conversations going and identifying a range of projects that we can progress to active collaborations and/or applications for partnership grants.  The following is a brief summary of the discussions of the day. Please feel free to contact Jessie (jessie.roberts(at)qut.edu.au) if we have missed anything. 

## Summary
   * 25 people participated in the workshop, with 14 ACEMS members and 15 Blood Service. 
   * The Blood Service has a yearly research cycle 
       * By **early October**: High level project ideas - detailing Problem definition/context, investigational method (concept), business benefit. 
       * By **mid January**: full project proposals due including budget, timeline, deliverables and detailed methods section. Researcher track records are also required to inform the external Research Advisory Committee of relevant expertise. 
       * **IMPORTANT**: Blood Service is not a funding agency, the internal funding round is a validation process to justify the research projects conducted and $ spent.
 
##### POTENTIAL RESEARCH PROJECTS

1. Developing robust statistical methods for modelling infectious diseases with low prevalence and incorporating into risk models of blood transfusion.
2. Demand Forecasting: 
     * Examining spatial variation in demand.
     * Targeted collections
     * Examining demographic and ethnicity of a region and evaluating the influence on product demand?   
     * Methods to include or evaluate uncertainty in Blood Product forecasts.   
     * Exploring extreme value modelling. Can collection and distribution design influence efficiency.  
     * Use of expert elicitation for embedding market knowledge into forecasts.   
3. Infectious disease scenarios leading to restricted collections.
4. Targeting boutique blood donations.
5. Designing flexible networks to handle rare & extreme events. Addressing localised depletion of stocks due to extreme bleeding of a single or small numbers of patients. Examining the ability to have rapid transportation of supply moved between hospitals or network nodes. 
7. Operations Research Problems 
     * Donor scheduling and flow in Blood Donation Centres. 
     * Scheduling of routine blood safety lab tests.


## NEXT STEP

1.  Add yourself to the ACEMS Slack group to continue discussions. You are welcome to continue discussions over email if you prefer. To add yourself to the ACEMS slack team follow the steps below: 

    * Go to [https://slack.com/](https://slack.com/) and create an account. 
    * Add yourself to the team [acemathstats.com](https://acemathstats.slack.com/messages/general/)
    * Add yourself to the channel **#blood_service_wrkshp**
    
2. Get in touch with an ACEMS member or Blood Service employee that you think may be interested in collaborating on a joint project with you. Email Jessie if you need contact details for anyone at the workshop. jessie.roberts(at)qut.edu.au 

3. Submit a preliminary project proposal to the Blood Service for consideration by the October deadline (ACEMS researchers will need to partner with a Blood Service employee). Email Jessie for more information (details above).
